Let's
see.
The extracurricular student organizations,
what were the big? Well, again, I was limited in
participation. There were hometown clubs, they
were very important. And which one did you
associate with? I guess I went with San Antonio,
and they met, but I, you know, I didn't, it wasn't
any big deal, and then they had the Silent Solemn
Club in the department, and again, I did
participate some in them. One of my, either my
frustrations, or I don't know how it is, is that I
had, I guess, wanted to participate in some of the
judging programs, livestock judging teams,
because that was a high-level recognition to
participate. But I found it very incompatible
with both the academic and work schedule because
they just, it was kind of like band and football, it
just took an inordinate amount of time. I mean you
were expected to practice three, two or three or
four hours a day and then make a lot of weekend trips
and everything. And it was extremely time
consuming and I took the courses out of which the
teams were picked But to make a commitment to go on
the team, you tried out for it, it was so time
consuming. I think I qualified for one or two and
then just decided it was just too much to handle. I
mean it was, if you're familiar with the livestock
judging thing, it has, I think other than helping
with your judgment, it's kind of like a debating
thing. You learn how to express yourself. and have
to be, you know... Who was, who was the academic
advisor? Do you remember? Well, at the time it was
Bill Warren, and he was a toughy. You know, we're
good friends now, and I remind him of this. He had,
he was fresh out of the Marines from World War II
when he came here, and I guess may not have even had
his doctorate by then, because at that time a lot of
the professors didn't have their doctorate. They
had master's, maybe master's degree. Anyway, he
was solid marine discipline, I mean, in his
judging teams. I don't know if that turned me off,
but to this day he denies that he did that, but to
shake you up when he wanted to be sure that the
reasons that you gave, why you placed this animal
over that, that you had solid reasons. And if he
didn't agree with you, he'd look you
cold-bloodedly in the eye and say, you lied to me.
You know, you weren't consistent in what you said
one time with him. He said, he just looked you right
in the eye and said, you lied to me. But as I said, I
consider him one of my good friends, and we'd laugh
over that to this day. He says he wouldn't have ever
said that, but I know he did. Now, what facilities
were there for animal science across the tracks?
Nothing then. It was all in the pavilion. The
judging was always, they brought the animals in.
And that was the coldest and the hottest place in
the world. At the old time, they used to, I remember
freezing in there, they'd bring a, Well, the usual
way of judging for the teams was you'd get a class of
four animals, four sheep, four horses, four kind
of steers or whatever. They'd bring them in, and
you'd judge them there. And the animal science
building was all-inclusive. It even had the meat
laboratory in it. It had everything in there,
pretty much. And then they had their farms across
the track. And you occasionally visited those as
students. They had a sheep farm, swine farm, beef
camp, and so forth. During all of your
undergraduate years did you get to make any exotic
trip as a part of the judging? You didn't get to go to
Kansas City? No, I said I opted not to go with the
Thames because it just took too much time. And you
know I've had nephews and others that have done
this and even now our grandnieces and nephews are
participating in that, but it was just too time
consuming I thought. And Dr. Butler, did you have
any courses with him? Yes, I did, and I can tell you a
story on him that he denied to his... He was a very
emphatic teacher, and he had come out of the
military, too, with some rank, I guess. He was a
Mitzvah person, taught Mitz. And this is a true
story, but he denies it to this day, as I told you,
but he's passed away here recently.
But we had this... situations, I told you, if you
were in the upper 25% and made an A or B, you could
exempt your final. Well, that particular year, I
don't know which it was, might have been my junior,
I took the basic meets course, and I was tottering.
I was pushed for grades, and I was tottering
between an A and a B, and I think the final counted a
third, and I got to thinking, you know, I was
computing my averages, that if I could almost max
the final, I could raise my grade. But, you know,
since my idea was to look at the final and decide,
you know, if this isn't what I want to do, or I can't
do it, I might as well not. I guess one of the
problems was, since it was sort of an optional
thing, I really didn't study as hard as I should
have. Well, the final was a beast. I mean, I looked
at it and scanned through it, and I said, boy, I'm
glad I'm exempt. I started to leave. And he said, I
couldn't. I made the option. And I pulled my grade
down to a C. And I never had forgiven him. I must have
really blown that thing. He denies that. But
another thing, he was very emphatic. He was one
day, somebody asked him, you're familiar with the
term jowl? And he said, I don't know which way he
said it. He said, jowl. And somebody said, is that
the way you pronounce it? And he said, of course. I
was trying to think of the word. How? He said, you
know, rhymes with that. Voice from the
background, what about bowl? He couldn't respond
to that one. He was put down for one time. Did the
student have a nickname for him? No. I remember
another professor I shouldn't identify with.
Well, I guess it... What was his name? He taught
sheep courses. Dahlberg, Dahlberg. He was kind of
a laid-back type of professor, and I think some
called him sleepy. Anyway, one day I remember him
coming into our class and just throwing his
materials on the desk and obviously very unhappy.
He said he just came from Casey's, where people got
coffee, and he said he overheard two students
standing in line there and one of them said, can I
buy you a cup of coffee? I said, no thanks. They
said, I'm going to Dahlberg's class and it may keep
me awake.
Oh, that's a good one.
You're here four years as an undergraduate. As you
look back, to which faculty members would you give
the highest marks that you, whose courses you had?
Well, Dr. Miller taught I think a sheep course that
I thought very highly of. Tom Harrington I've
mentioned. And
Bill Warren was a great teacher, don't get me wrong
on that. Bryson, Dr. Adrians, Dr. Bryson, these
were people that stand out. Fred Bryson? Yeah.
People that I had courses under that stand out.
Which one was the toughest in terms of making the
grade that you wanted? the most demanding? I don't
really know. That may be hard to point that out. I
might indicate
what happened subsequently. I mean, we're taking
a lot of time on this particular part, but I'll just
quickly thumbnail the rest of my career. After the
sophomore year, I did stay here for one summer, one
semester. I had the idea that since I was always
carrying twenty to twenty-four hours I could
graduate early and with the one to six hours in the
summer maybe I could graduate early. I was eager to
get into the workforce and I worked here one,
between my sophomore and junior year I went the
first semester summer term and took some courses,
a couple courses, which was a mistake. You can't
imagine how hot those dormitories are. even with
fans, they soak up the brick, and so forth, soaks up
the heat, and it was really, and classes were hot
too, even though they started at seven in the
morning, but then I spent the rest of the summer
working on the farm again, but I did, I was
accumulating hours pretty fast, to the extent
that I got my, qualified for my senior ring, I guess
about a year or at least a semester ahead of my
colleagues, and so that was a big achievement for
me, and... How did you feel when you got that ring?
It's indescribable. Anything after that would be
anticlimactical. Do you remember what it cost?
Thirty bucks, something like that, I think. And
did you earn it, or did your parents give it? Well, I
paid for it. I mean, I'm pretty well paid for
everything. Have you ever lost it? No, never. And
what about some interesting stories where
somebody, some far, faraway place spotted it? Oh,
I've read about those. But you've not had... No,
I've never lost it. I've never lost it. And I don't
wear it all the time. I wear it when I'm out, but if I
work in the yard or something, I don't wear it. But
it's pretty warm. And I couldn't afford a diamond
in it, of course. I still don't have a diamond in it.
Okay, going on quickly. A
wonderful thing happened to me, as far as I was
concerned, for my own career and future career.
About that time, they organized a new office of
training program here, Army Security Agency. I
don't know if you've ever heard of that. It's
intelligence stuff. And I guess it was a
challenge. If you were made to take an IQ test, and
if you had a certain level of IQ, you were
acceptable. And at that time, there were only
three schools offering the program, MIT,
University of Illinois, and Texas A&M. Hmm. And so
they organized a new unit, Army Security. The
first year, we weren't, enough of us, or there
weren't any seniors, we were part of the signal
company, because it was related to signal
activities. So we were juniors in the signal
company. But then my senior year, we became a
company to ourselves, and it may be because of this
academic thing, We were the first one ever to win
the George Moore Award. Oh, really? Yeah, this
Army Security Agency. But I said there was a kind of
pre-selected group that went into that. But I was
really excited about getting into that program as
an ROTC, and I made a commitment. You had to make a
commitment. Of course, I needed the money, too. At
the end of your junior year, you had to decide
whether you were going to get a contract, as they
called it. It was $21 a month, which was necessary,
helpful. and provided you additional uniforms,
and of course that obligated you to take four years
of the ROTC in that particular branch and do a
summer camp, as you know, a six-week summer camp
between your junior and senior year. So that's
what happened in the junior year. I moved to
Dormitory 11 the first year as part of the Signal
Corps, and the next year we wore our own outfit. Did
that outfit have a nickname? that intelligence
outfit? No, maybe behind our backs we did that. We
were part of a composite battalion. I was, you
know, from the background I had, any rank or
achievement you made was highly honored. I did
make the battalion staff, I guess I became a
captain as a senior, and We were part of the
composite staff, which included the specialized
units like the signal core and chemical core.
Because I'm assuming that that outfit was kind of a
scheme of the crop, wasn't it? Well, it was because
you had to take the IQ test to score a certain level
on that. I don't know, there were some interviews
and things like that, but it was a selected group.
And we actually got to go to, during our summer
camp, we went to Fort Meade and we actually went
to... what do they call those barracks out of
Washington where this very famous code breaker
during World War II visited with us and I can't
think of his name but he was mostly involved in
breaking codes and ciphers and it took I mean
you've got these problems and they were you know
like 400 crossword puzzles wrapped up into one
because you had to you know study the frequency of
the letters try to figure out patterns. And of
course they've got machines to do all that
nowadays. And we hadn't started using machines
then. But I'm trying to think of the name of the
barracks. It's in the Pentagon area. I mean, it was
Arlington Farms. Arlington Farms, I guess they
called it. It was kind of a secret area. But we felt
very well. The other thing that happened my junior
year, they started to reactivate the Ross
Volunteers that year. So I opted for that, which
was time-consuming, but I liked the concept. But
we didn't do a whole lot because we were just
getting organized. How many were selected, as far
as you recall, then? Well, it was based on
academics and... No, no, but how many students?
Well, it was a company. There are pictures in
there. I would say in the books, I guess maybe 40 or
50. I'm not sure. And as far as you're aware, the
selection of the RVs then was based on their What
were the factors? I'm not sure. I think academics
entered into it, recommendations of your
military ROTC instructors, these type of things.
And it was probably time consuming too, but I think
we drilled about an hour a day most days. And I had
special roles to play in football games, but both
during my junior and senior year, we didn't have
all the fancy New Orleans trips. The only exciting
thing we did is during my senior year, we were the
honor guard for the governor when we played the
University of Texas over in Austin. Who was the
governor then? Was this Coke Stevenson? No, it
was... Buford Jester? Jester, that's who it was. I
think it was, yeah, I think it was. And they
described the uniform, make believe I'd never
seen it. Well, they've changed since then. They
got, I mean, it was very cheap. It was white, but it
was duck cloth. like we used for cotton sacks. Did
it have the... Yeah, high collar, but it was a very,
I mean, it only cost $20 or $25, but it was a cheap
type of thing. I'm sure they got, but it was part of
the financial situation at the time, but it was a
white uniform. And we had the silver plated
rifles, you know, that we played with and did
the... And black shoes? Probably, I don't know, I
can't remember. You know about the boot duration,
how important that is. Anyway, getting back to
that, to finishing off my career, as I said, I had
enough credits to graduate a semester early, but
then I got committed to Army security, and I had to
stay an extra semester to get my contract at the end
of my second half of my senior year, which I really
enjoyed because I had all my requirements except
that, So I jumped back and took all the courses I
always wanted to take as electives and never had
room for. I always felt my education had not been
complete because I never had had trigonometry in
high school or in college, so I took trigonometry.
What else? I can't remember all. I took German
because I had a little German background. I
thought, well, might as well take that. I took a
technical writing course because I took another
option earlier than that. And I think there were
one or two animal science courses that weren't
required that I took, but anyway. Now, had German
been spoken at home by your family? To a limited
extent. It had been spoken at home pretty much. I
guess I knew German better than English when I
started school. In fact, I often get accused of not
being Texan in my, having English as a second
language and with the grandparents and relatives
who talked German but my parents made a real effort
to talk English after I started school even though
their English you know even till the day they died
wasn't as good as it might have been I mean they had
accents and so forth but they I mean about the time I
started school English started they started
speaking English all the time at home which was
probably good for me but I I always thought, well,
I'd had that little start in it, and one of the
reasons I selected it as one of my languages in the
old days when you had to have languages for... But
that was a mistake, because I was in Wisconsin.
They had the toughest German department. Oh,
yeah. And the French and the Spanish guys just
breezed through it. The German department wanted
you really to be able to read, which was a shock.
They... All right, now I kind of gather that this
intelligence outfit was a spark to you. Well, it
was something we really enjoyed. I mean, you felt
you were somewhat as an elitist, I guess. All
right, by then, by the time you're taking those
courses you really wanted to take that spring of
your fourth year, Had you zeroed in more surely on
what you wanted to do? Well, I was almost enamored
with a military career by that time. I mean, in
fact, I had, I even had toyed with the idea of West
Point somewhere along the line, either between my
sophomore and junior year, and I started going in
that direction until I had my ROTC physical here,
and I found out I was nearsighted. And at that time,
West Point would not accept you unless you were
20-20. I think they do now, I understand. It's
ridiculous. It's easily correctable. But I was
told I would not be eligible, which, you know, I
might have gone to a military career because I
really got turned on by the military activity. And
he talked about professors. There was a Major
Jones assigned here who was the lone officer for
Army Security. He had been a signal officer but
retraded as an Army Security because the work that
Army Security did during the war had been done by
the Signal Corps. But it had gotten so important,
code breaking and traffic analysis. Are you
familiar with that? Communication, where you
listen to radio and you position units where they
are. They call it order battle, all that. They made
a separate branch out of it, intelligence branch.
Anyway, I was really beginning to think in terms of
a military career, and I guess I hadn't ruled it
out. And this Major Jones, I guess, gave me the best
advice I ever had. I mean, he didn't particularly
encourage, at that time, it was between the World
War II and the Korean War, he encouraged my
participation in the reserves. He said, why don't
you go civilian, you can still keep up your
military interest. And the conventional wisdom
of the guys, my peers, don't get into the reserves.
Worst thing you could do, because you'll be the
first to go. And, uh, But this guy gave me the best
piece of advice, and he said, you know, from my
perspective, at my age, he said, you ought to stay
in there to earn the retirement benefits, because
he said, you'll find that time will go on anyway.
And so I was one of the very few who opted for active
reserve duty after I got my commission, which,
unexpectedly, kept me from having to go to Korea.
Because, you know, when a year after we graduated,
I was already participating in reserve
activities down at Fort Crockett in Galveston.
We'd have weekend trainings and things like that.
I remember being down there when the Korean War
broke out. And we were all expecting
to be called immediately. And that's what
happened. The ones who did not commit to the
reserves. These were the guys that they called
out, and they retraded them all as infantry
officers. They were platoon leaders. In fact, I
met a person who lives in this community who was in a
subsequent, I think the following year, the
people that graduated right at that time, I guess
the class of 50, I was 49. They were 36, I think he
said. No, maybe, it doesn't matter. Anyway, at the
time they got their commission half were sent to
Korea, half were sent to Germany. And the half that
were sent to Korea, there was not a single
survivor. These had been Army security people who
had been retrented. But I, in fact, my career was
beginning to hinge on that, and my marriage and
everything else, you know, I expected to go any
time. And they kept saying, you stay with the unit.
We'll call you as a unit when we want. You'll
probably be called. And, you know, we kept, and it
was that status. It was down at El Campo where I
belonged to a, replacement unit and we in fact we
were on call at least twice I mean alert and then
they backed down on it for some reason or the other
but I continued my reserve activities for 30 years
and earned retirement benefits and Major Jones
was right the time went on anyway. Alright your
senior spring describe final review
commencement for you and your family, your loved
ones. Wonderful experience. Last semester was
the first year at a time I really had fun because I
was doing the courses I wanted and at that time too
you know seniors were exempt, graduating seniors
were exempt from finals. That was nice. You still
want to make a good grade but you didn't have to
worry about finals and particularly that week, I
guess a week or so before last classes and And
graduation, that was really a fun week. We could
harass everybody else. But I remember my senior
review in a very interesting way. We had the gosh
awfulest downpour of rain you can ever imagine. I
can remember the guy with the bass horns pouring
water. Really? I mean, it was absolutely monsoon
rain the whole time. Everybody got soaked to the,
And the graduation was in Caulfield, and
everybody got pretty wet. And I guess it was
meaningful to me at that time, as graduation was
commissioning, because I guess I was the first one
from my community and family that ever got... Who
came from your family? My parents, I think,
basically. I think that was it, my parents. Now,
you hadn't met this special young lady yet? No. No.
No, that came later. Your senior boots, where'd
you get them and what'd you pay for them? Oh, they
were secondhand. I got them from the boot shop.
Hollick's? Hollick's, the boot shop, and they
were secondhand and they never fit. Any blisters?
Yeah, but I just wore them on ceremonial
occasions, but it would have been nice if I could
have, I think I probably paid $20 or $30 for them. I
think you ones were close, even at that time, close
to $100. Did you sell them back to them? Oh, yes. I
probably bought what I paid for them, but they
never did fit. Anyway, I'll have to tell you one
other story about the boots. Of course, that's a
very proud moment when you can put those boots on,
and we were stupid enough or young enough,
whatever you want, the 15 or 20 of us that were in
this Army Security Unit were sent to Fort Meade,
Maryland, so we could go to Washington, D.C. and
participate and look at some of those
intelligence activities. Everybody else went
to, I think, to... I mean, the infantry, artillery
people all went to like, what's the base in
Oklahoma? Fort Sill? Fort Sill, or Port Hood, or
some of those places, and we got to go to the exotic
New York, or rather, Maryland.
My father had finally gotten a new car after the
war. It was just summer of 48. and he was going to
dump his old Hudson Terraplane. And I said, well,
let me have it. So two colleagues of mine, one in
Houston and one in San Antonio, the three of us
drove to Maryland and participated at Fort Meade
there. And what I'm leading up to is we had the
weekend two or three days off at 4th of July. So we
drove to New York City. None of us had ever been out
of state before. And we wore our boots, of course.
We stayed, I think, five or six to a hotel room to cut
down expenses. And I remember two things. Well,
the main thing I remember was riding the boat out to
the Statue of Liberty. And, of course, there were a
bunch of high school girls along there. We found
out they were from Brooklyn, and we gave them our
attention, and they gave us their attention. And
one of them just finally couldn't contain
herself. She said, geez, what's with the boots?
Ha! I said, this guy's talk's funny. And that was
very shocking to us. All right. As you graduated,
what kind of world did you think you were entering?
And how well prepared did you think A&M had made
you? Well, I was, as I said, totally, I came back to
my earlier commitment of wanting to be a county
agent. And I started working that pretty hard for
my last year. And it turned out that with all the
veterans graduating and everything, they had a
lot of candidates for jobs. And I think they told me
later for four, five, six openings they had, they
had over 100 applicants. But the Extension
headquarters used to be in the Military Science
Building. Did you know that? And then the
Experiment Station was over here, what they call
the Butler Building now. All the Extension people
were in one building, including the director and
everybody else. And I worked that very, very hard
trying to be sure I'd get the position. And one of
the funnies that kind of reminds you of the
military of putting you where you're least
qualified, I remember filling out the
application form. And that stayed on the form a
long time after. There was a rule in extension
service you couldn't work in your home county,
which is probably a good rule, because you'd
always be old man Jones' little kid. But that was
one rule. You could work anywhere. And I was
filling out this form. It was about a four-page
form of a little background and everything. Got
the question, what part of the state would you
prefer to work in? And I, desperate for a job, I
said, anywhere. But I remember turning to the
secretary and I said, I put that on there, I said,
but I hope they don't send me to the Rice area,
because that's one thing I don't know anything
about. Uh-oh, uh-oh. You know my first county. The
second county were both Rice counties. Which
county? Wharton and, well, I was assistant agent
in Wharton and county agent in Matagorda, Bay
City. When did that, when did you begin that? Well,
I graduated around the first of the, June, as I
recall. I had my commission, I had my degree, and I
had been selected for a training position, not a
regular position, a training position in the
Extension Service, and that was just kind of for
you to get, until they had more openings and could
observe you a little bit to see whether you'd fit
the organization. And I was, I remember working
with the district supervisor who employed me for
that job, I wanted to go to work the week Monday
after I graduated. He said, look, take a week off at
least. You're never going to do it again. Anyway,
he talked me into that. And I think it was on the 10th
of June, I was sent as an agent in training, which
was $2,600. I'd have a car. to work in, I guess they
did that as a favor to me, to work in the neighboring
county, Seguin, in Guadalupe County. And there
was a county agent there that I very much admired,
Bill Rector, who was my first, and I only worked
there about six weeks. And then they transferred
me as a training person to Beeville, Bee County.
And I worked, they were trying, the Extension
Service was trying to get that county to put up the
money for an assistant position, and I started
going in that direction. But in September of that
year I got a call from another supervisor from the
Gulf Coast who had an opening in Wharton, a regular
position, assistant county agent position in
Wharton County, which was the Rice County. And so I
accepted that position, which was a regular
position. And, well, you can see it on there. I
worked in that position for about a year and a half,
and then I went to Michigan State because I felt my
future would be enhanced in the extension service
if I had gotten at least a master's degree. And I
also had subscribed to the notion that I didn't
want to go directly into graduate school. I
thought it was good to get a little experience in
between. And I figured that after two years,
usually at that time, if you successfully had
about two years of assistant agent, you were ready
for it. agent position, I thought well if I'm ever
going to get an education it would be better to do it
between those two.